# An Introduction to Git and GitHub

Git is a version control system used to track changes in computer files. It is used for source code management in software development, which for our purposes includes the development of computational models and tools we develop in the lab. Version control is **critical** as your work becomes more sophisticated and complex. It enables you to be systematic in your experimentation with different model versions or features without affecting your original source code. For instance, using version control you can easily *branch* off the original source code, make adjustments or add features that you think will be useful, test those changes, and then either *merge* those changes into the original source code (if they work) or revert back to the original source code (if they dont). This is a lot more efficent and safe then having dozens of model versions saved using different file names (e.g., model_v1, model_v2,...,model_v12 etc), and also supports collaborative model development.

GitHub is a cloud-based Git repository hosting service. With its user-friendly interface, GitHub helps individuals and teams use Git for version control and collaboration. We use GitHub as a central location for making publicly available the models and tools developed in the lab, which is key to our commitment to Open Science. 

There are **lots** of tutorials online for Git and GitHub. If you are totally new to Git and Guthub, I would strongly suggest you watch this series of [videos](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL4cUxeGkcC9goXbgTDQ0n_4TBzOO0ocPR). Its about 1.5 hours to watch them all, but they give a very simple, practical, and clear introduction on how and why we use these tools. For beginners, the time investment is definitely worth it. Some other useful tutorials can be found [here](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/quickstart/hello-world) and [here](https://product.hubspot.com/blog/git-and-github-tutorial-for-beginners).  

Finally, its important to note that you can often store your data on GutHub too, but only up to a certain size. Large datasets (files > 50 MB) should not be stored in the GitHub repository, but instead in other general-purpose open repositories (e.g., [Zenodo](https://zenodo.org/)) that you can directly link to your GitHub account. You can also use Zenodo to create a permanent DOI for the current version of a GitHub repo, which is very useful when submitting publications. 
